h1. RBlog

*RBlog* is modern blog engine with elements of social network written with "Ruby On Rails":http://www.rubyonrails.org.
With *RBlog* you can easily manage your personal blog or create a community within two minutes. 

|*Author:*|Igor Alexandrov (igor.alexandrov@gmail.com)|
|*Copyright:*|Copyright © 2010 Igor Alexandrov. All rights reserved.|
|*License:*|MIT License ("opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php":http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)|
|*Website:*|"www.github.com/igor-alexandrov/rblog":http://github.com/igor-alexandrov/rblog|

h1. Requires

* *rails* ≥ 2.3.5

* _authlogic_ ≥ 2.1.0
* _cancan_ ≥ 1.0.0
* _gravtastic_ ≥ 2.2.0
* _rainbow_ ≥ 1.0.4
* _sanitize_ ≥ 1.2.0
* _searchlogic_ ≥ 2.4.0

h1. Demo

You can always see the most recent version of RBlog at our "demo-page":http://rblog-demo.connectify.ru. Please remember that it is a recent version from trunk and it can have a bugs.

h1. Whan can you do with RBlog

Every day new features appear in RBlog. We are working hardly to give you the most powerful and advanced RoR blog engine.

h4. Manage your content easy!

You don't need to enter admin side to create new post. Do it from index page easy and fast!

All content in RBlog is divided into different types. Each type has it's own great features.

Now RBlog supports two types of content:
* *Topic*. Topic is the most common type of your post. You can write in it everything you want. 
* *Link*. Link is a small post, that points to some other resource in Internet. Link has a description (length of description can be set in config.yml file) and url. It is very useful, when you want to save some interesting material or make a cross-posting.

It is very easy to add new types of content to RBlog. And in some upcoming releases we will add some new types. If you have any offers, contact us please.

h4. Bring speed and power to your posts.

As you know RBlog is written with Ruby on Rails. By using this technology we can add new features very easy.
RBlog has some great features like:
* nested comments in posts (they work with or without javascript). First level comments are highlighted with special mark, so they are easy to find;
* nested pages with human readable permalinks (@[your_domain]/about@ will refer to about page, @[your_domain]/about/clients@ will refer to your clients page and etc.). Create as many pages, as you want! Thanks to Alexander Borisov;;
* post are taggable, so you can organize your information better;

h4. Migrate from WordPress.

Now WordPress migration is under heavy development.

You want to migrate from other blog engine? Contact us and we will do it for you!

h3. How to install RBlog?

First you need server with Rails-2.3.4 or later.
Clone RBlog from GitHub

bc .git clone git://github.com/igor-alexandrov/rblog.git

It will make a directory called @rblog@ on your hard disk. Got into it. Now you should prepare your database. Just copy @config/database_sample.yml@ as @config/database.yml@
and edit it in your favorite editor. By the way @wp_db@ in @database.yml@ is a configuration for database with WordPress (this is if you are migrating from wordpress).
So, your @database.yml@ is ready. Now you should create tables in your database.

bc. rake db:migrate

Tables are ready, lets just load some initial data into them.

bc. rake db:seed

Run

bc. ./script/server

That is all, you can see your blog at @localhost:3000@. Admin section is located at @localhost:3000/admin@, default user is "*admin*" and password is "*admin*" too.
Enjoy!

h3. How to migrate from WordPress?

It is easy. RBlog can copy your posts and comments now. For this install RBlog, write appropriate parameters for @wp_db@ in @database.yml@ and then type

bc. rake migrate:from_wordpress

That is all!

[www.aleksandrov.me]http://www.aleksandrov.me
[www.simplelog.net]http://www.simplelog.net
[flickr_rblog]http://www.flickr.com/photos/igor_alexandrov/sets/72157622630772502/
